Composable Architecture for AI Systems: APIs, MCP, Skills, Sub-Agents, and Workflows

API Days India 2026, Bengaluru, August 19, 2026

Erik Wilde

Transcript of the delivered talk, cleaned up from the YouTube auto-transcript: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhl2itIj3EQ
Filler words and transcription errors removed; wording otherwise left as spoken.

Welcome everybody. My name is Erik Wilde, and what I would like to do is talk a little bit
about the fact that even though AI is great and wonderful, it's not the only game in town.
We're still writing code, we're still executing regular code, and I think that means we have to
think about how we separate those two, which I sometimes call realms: different ways of how you
can solve and approach problems.

I work as an ambassador for the OpenAPI Initiative, so I organize events for them, and tomorrow
we have the OpenAPI track all day in this room, which goes from 11 to the end of the event,
where we just talk about standards in the API space, mostly about OpenAPI and other standards
from the OpenAPI Initiative. So if you're interested in standards, and interested in learning
about how to use them and why it makes sense to use standards and how they help you build
better solutions, come and join us tomorrow here in this room. If you want to find out more
about what I'm doing, you can find me on LinkedIn and YouTube.

So let's briefly start with why I started with this presentation. I think we all remember those
days when we looked at the first versions of chatbots and asked them very simple questions,
like arithmetic, and they just came up with wrong answers. I think that has been fixed by now.
But I would just like to call into memory that even though AI is great, it's not the right tool
for every job. On the right-hand side you can see the famous Maslow's hammer, which says that
if the only tool you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail. Sometimes I think nowadays
we also get talked into this idea by the usual suspects, the organizations that make a lot of
money, or hope to make a lot of money, with AI, that you can solve any problem with AI. Which I
guess in principle is true. But the question then is: should I solve every problem with AI?

This is of course a little bit provocative. But if you think about it, even though nowadays you
could ask an LLM about simple math questions, it's super inefficient. If you ask a CPU a simple
math question, it costs you nothing. It's basically a few nanoseconds, pretty much zero energy
consumption, and it will give you the same answer every single time. With an LLM it costs you
really trillions of times more in terms of computation, because what happens under the hood is
super complicated, even though it's highly optimized these days. It costs you much more power.
And even then, depending on which problem you're giving to the LLM, it might get it wrong
occasionally. You can't be sure that it comes up with the same answer every single time.

Of course this is a slightly oversimplified example, and I think the answer is pretty clear
that if you want to do math, probably don't use ChatGPT, use your pocket calculator or your
CPU. But generally speaking, we are facing this question nowadays of which problems are
actually problems we should solve with LLMs, and which problems are well understood enough and
well defined enough that we can throw regular good old automation with deterministic code at
them.

What that comes down to, in my mind, is to really think about those things as something where
we want to decompose our problems into solutions that use the right approach for the problem
we're solving. In many cases what I think we will end up doing is ending up with hybrid
solutions, where we do certain things with LLMs and certain things with good old code, that
maybe we have produced with LLMs, but in the end it's code that we run that does the same thing
every single time. Those solutions are the ones we should really strive to be good at building.

What that also means is that because those boundaries may shift, for some problem we used to
solve with automation we now say actually LLMs are a better solution. Or we may go the other
way around and say, well, we used to solve this problem with LLMs, but now we've figured out
that it's stable enough that we can formalize it in some shape or form, and you can solve your
problem with deterministic code.

So my claim is that going forward, what we want is architectures that allow us to move those
boundaries pretty fluidly. And whenever we have boundaries we probably need interfaces, which
is why I'm interested in that problem, because the interfaces then often show up in the form of
APIs.

It's also something I've been working on with my colleague Frank Kilcommins. We've worked
towards a solution where basically, if you observe often enough that an LLM does a certain
sequence of steps, it makes sense to crystallize that sequence into a workflow that you can
just run. You can validate it, you can prove that it always works the same way, and you can
maybe optimize it. It becomes this deterministic kind of thing. If you want to learn more about
this, tomorrow Frank has a talk in the OpenAPI track where he talks about how to do that
specifically with open standards, with Arazzo. But it's just one example of where we probably
want to go, in my mind.

I think it's important because we're still being promised that we can let AI do everything. And
I want to be very clear about what I mean when I talk about AI in this specific presentation.
I'm mostly talking about using AI for business problems. So business agents, things that happen
at runtime. I'm not talking about coding agents. Coding agents, great, use them, everybody uses
them. By now it's very clear that yes, coding agents are a good and useful thing. But in my
mind there is quite a difference between using coding agents to produce code that then runs,
and using business agents that use LLMs or other techniques to actually run things at runtime,
to solve business problems with AI.

The reason why we might want to keep that in mind is that even though we have this promise that
AI will eventually become perfect, so we can always use the same model and it will always solve
everything in the right way and we just have to tell it what we want, realistically speaking we
are still struggling sometimes with models not being quite that perfect. A new model comes out
and suddenly the solution we built starts doing different things, because the new model has
different ticks and does things differently than before. And it's really hard for us to even
detect it, and then fix it, and so forth. So at least for a little while, I think we still have
to treat LLM-based solutions as something that comes with a couple of downsides, a couple of
trade-offs that we have to make. And I think that calls for us as developers to also make sure
that we build solutions that minimize the risks we take with AI.

The interesting thing is that I think we've had this problem for quite a while, but we never
quite noticed. When AI in its pre-GenAI form was there, so before generative AI and LLMs, for
quite a while we had machine learning, which gave us some of the same capabilities. But it was
much more expensive to build machine learning solutions, because we had to specifically design
and build and train and test them. So you would only do it, in many cases, for very clearly
bounded contexts, where you would say: okay, I need this classification task to run well, I
don't know how to do it in deterministic code, so I do it with machine learning. But it was
clear that you wanted to keep that very bounded, because it was expensive and difficult to
build, and it also was not easy to find people who were good at doing it.

Generative AI has just completely shifted that boundary, so to speak, to allow us to use AI in
many more cases. Because as we've all found out, it's really fascinating what kind of problems
you can just talk to your LLM about, and it will give you a good enough answer. But there still
is this boundary where we have to make decisions.

So in the end, what I really want to talk about here is good old software architecture. This
idea that we're building different kinds of solutions, maybe one part of the solution built
LLM-based, the other part built with deterministic code, and we want to make sure that we build
this in a way that if things change, we can change our way of solving the problem relatively
easily.

That was actually my main reason why I joined Jentic about a year ago, because my understanding
of what we are building is that it's a solution that gives you a slider you can very easily
move between "this should be deterministic" and "this should be non-deterministic". And the
more easily you can use that slider, the better your solutions will become, because you can
more easily decide what type of solution is actually a good solution to your problem.

What I also think is that this will become increasingly important, and this is pure speculation
on my side, but I think where we're going is that we will not use all these uber models that
much anymore. Instead we will go more towards small language models, which are better suited to
particular tasks, which we can then run on our laptops or on our phones or in our data center
without needing the latest and greatest machinery from Nvidia or whoever. And the better we
build our solutions in terms of only solving certain problems with LLMs and others with code,
and making that flexible, the sooner we get to the point where we can say we don't actually
need these uber models for everything. Maybe we still need them for software development, but
maybe we don't really need them for that many business tasks.

When we think about how we make these things interact, how we build these individual components
which are either deterministic or probabilistic, they have different kinds of interfaces. You
can use different technologies, we'll get to that in a minute. But it's definitely something
where you can say we have these different behaviors.

When you look at deterministic components, deterministic code behaves in a very specific way.
If you give it the same input, it will produce the same output. That's nice. It always used to
be like this with computers, in most cases, unless we have weird side effects. But that is
something we could depend on, which is nice. You can test them for these purposes, so you have
large test suites that you can run. And because of that, when you compose these things they
compose pretty predictably. It becomes something where you can pull together components and
they have a predictable behavior overall. Also the behavior remains stable: when you update to
a new Java or a new version of your operating system, your program doesn't suddenly run
differently. Okay, sometimes it does, but it shouldn't. It's more the exception than the rule.
And that also means it's very clear what your code does.

With probabilistic components, which you can also package and deliver as something that
somebody can use, it's quite different. It's not something that always behaves the same way.
You can barely make any guarantees about what it does, because it does what it's statistically
doing. There is a certain distribution of results to expect, but it's not your good old "this
input produces this output" equation.

That also means it's not the same kind of component that will always produce the same result.
And in some cases, depending on which business you're in, that makes it really hard for some
organizations, some businesses, some lines of business to use these kinds of things. If you
need to prove that your code does certain things, if you need to have somebody sign off on "I
tested this component and I know it behaves like this", if you're in the medical sector or in
other safety-critical sectors, then these things become really important. You cannot just say,
yeah, most of the time it looked kind of right to me. You have to be a little bit more strict
than that. So trying to make those components as well contained as possible makes sense, so
that you can use them in a good way outside of a safety-critical path, and make sure the
safety-critical path is always deterministic.

The other reason why this is sometimes tricky is that they may even change behavior without you
entirely predicting it. When a new model comes out and you don't run your own model, you depend
on some model provider. Or your company decides we don't like this model provider anymore, and
we now want to switch model providers. Then suddenly you might run into all of your components
behaving differently, because the new model might do things in a different way. That is a level
of variation that you just don't have with traditional code.

When you are doing things in the probabilistic space, you are always depending not on your code
but on some external component, the model, coming up with the end result. You hope that it
generally comes up with a result you expect, but it's not something you can really depend on.
Which means that if you have a dependable way of doing it deterministically, you might want to
switch to that. Also it's a trillion times more cost-efficient, which is really nice.

In the end, these different components come with very different trade-offs, they have very
different behaviors, and I think for us as architects of the solutions we build, we have to
make sure that we separate those as well as possible and then are able to change and tweak them
over time.

I have to admit that I'm still struggling to come up with the best possible visualization of
this. But here's a little bit of my idea of how different solutions that are out there right
now work, in the sense of: do these provide deterministic execution, or do these provide a more
probabilistic way of doing things, where if I formulate my solution that way it comes with
those trade-offs I was just talking about, that I cannot guarantee it behaves in a certain way.

The most probabilistic one, so to speak, is just using prompts. Prompts are often something
that you write, it's kind of an ephemeral thing, and depending on how you write it your model
might interpret it differently. So that becomes something that is very open in terms of the
results it produces.

There are other ways that more and more people are trying to explore. There's the idea of sub-
agents, where instead of solving all of your problems with one LLM that does all the work, you
separate different LLMs, and you might have different LLMs specialized in different tasks. You
might have some ideas around this LLM being better for that. You might have some LLMs that you
have trained for certain tasks, that have your internal company knowledge, others that don't,
or that have internal knowledge of something else. In that case, when you start composing those
different things with sub-agents, you might already have a little bit more predictability,
because you specifically choose a specific LLM and say this one is more likely to produce the
result that I think is a good result. You more tightly control that this part of the problem is
going to be solved by this sub-agent based on that model. So that gives you a little more
control.

You might also outsource, and that is what all of us are doing more or less these days, certain
parts of your problem solving into components that you access through MCP. Now, MCP doesn't
constrain you in any shape or form in what you're actually calling into. MCP basically just
gives you this ability where you let your model choose a tool, invoke the tool, and then
something happens. You don't really know what happens, but typically what happens behind an MCP
tool is deterministic. That's on average what happens. So that already allows you to say
certain things I want to solve in code, and when my model wants to solve a certain sub-problem,
go through a certain step, then it should use that tool. And this is the interesting twist
there: if the LLM then decides to use this tool, which you cannot guarantee, but if it decides
to use this tool, then things happen in a deterministic way.

That can also become a little tricky, in particular, and I think we've all run into this, when
you have multiple tools that should be combined and used. Then you run into this issue where
maybe, instead of relying on the LLM to combine 20 different tools, you want to have a workflow
that combines that for you, and that workflow is executed deterministically. In which case you
would reduce the uncertainty, because you would say: whenever you want to do this, invoke that
workflow, and then you have 20 steps running. That is what we talk about tomorrow, about Arazzo
workflows in the OpenAPI track. In that case you have turned the deterministic side even
further into something that runs the same way every single time.

I think these mechanisms are interesting to compare and contrast. What I also find interesting
is the skill mechanism that we have nowadays. Skills are this interesting idea of giving
packaged capabilities to LLMs. They combine all these things: a skill could be nothing more
than a prepackaged prompt, it's just natural language in there. Or a skill could have basically
no natural language in there and just say invoke this command. So you don't really know. A
skill can be both things. It can be pretty deterministic or it can be entirely probabilistic.
It's kind of hard to tell.

But that also means that when you use skills, you have to think about what you are actually
doing. Do I depend on the model to do the right thing, or do I actually use this more or less
like MCP, where I just depend on that skill to be invoked, and if it gets invoked then the
right thing happens every single time?

I don't want to go into the details of these because I'm running a little late. But I think for
us as engineers, what we really need to do these days is to think through what the mechanisms
we're using are actually doing with the solutions we build. How are they separating these
solutions into deterministic and probabilistic parts, and how well does this separation work
for our problem?

We shouldn't approach this as something that we just hand over to some other entity, like an
LLM, and say build a solution and do whatever you think works well. We should really think
through what parts of my solution should be deterministic and which ones could be
probabilistic.

If we build something that we think really should be deterministic, then MCP probably is a very
good mechanism these days, because like I said, in pretty much 99.9% of all cases what is
behind an MCP tool is deterministic code that will just do things in a predictable way. So if
you want things to happen in a predictable way, wrap and package them through MCP. My
recommendation usually would be to wrap and package them in an API and then expose that API
through MCP, then you have actually covered both worlds. But because we're talking about LLMs
mostly, I'll keep it with MCP here.

With skills, I think it's a type of solution that's a little bit more exploratory. In a skill
you have the ability to combine the probabilistic way with more hardcoded ways. Your skill
could use a lot of natural language, or it could use mostly commands that get invoked, or it
could use a mix of both. So this allows you to be a little bit more open in the thing that
you're doing.

But as a guideline, I would think we should always strive to solve as many problems in a
deterministic way as possible, because that is cheaper, more reliable, more predictable, and
allows us to better understand what we're actually doing.

So in my mind, to conclude: the line that we draw between deterministic code and probabilistic
code is something we should be able to move in both directions. We should be able to say, well,
actually my deterministic code behaves a little weird, I have a lot of edge cases, I don't
quite know how to handle the edge cases, let's get an LLM in there that can do that better. Or
the other way around: the LLM always does the same thing anyway, so then just turn it into a
workflow and say, you know what, you don't have to come up with the same solution every single
time at a pretty high cost, instead I'll have that encoded in a deterministic component.

That also means that, from an API point of view, which I haven't talked about a lot today, this
might change the way we do API management. Because I think we then discover more and more of
these deterministic components that just get stabilized and wrapped into components that we can
then publish and make available. So in terms of API management this changes the picture a
little bit, because instead of explicitly designing APIs, we might end up discovering APIs. We
build solutions with LLMs, and then we discover that those solutions tend to do the same thing
over and over again, and then we say, oh, that seems to be something useful, let's turn that
into something we can actually repeat and execute in a simple way.

So in the end, our ability to work with these two realms will also change a little bit how we
do not just software architecture but also API management, because we might end up discovering
APIs more than we actually end up defining them, or some mix of those two things. I find that a
pretty interesting idea.

But of course that also means that once you've published those components, they become
something you actually have to promise will happen over and over again. So this is the good old
problem that we all know: you better make sure that what you turned into something
deterministic actually is something that should happen, that you've tested it, that you've
verified it, that maybe somebody looked at it who actually understands the business. And then
you can say, okay, this actually is a useful component, I make it public, and it becomes
something that everybody can use, because that's a new process that we've discovered, that
combines those 20 endpoints into a more easily usable capability that others in the
organization can then invoke as well.

And with this I would like to close with my unofficial motto. My unofficial motto is that for
AI a good general guideline, outside of using coding agents, but for runtime AI, I think it's a
worthwhile goal to try to use as little AI as possible. There are good places to use AI, no
doubt. But it's expensive, it's fuzzy, it's unreliable. So try to really make sure that you
draw these lines between those different things in a good way, that you are able to change them
when you want to, and then I think you can start building good solutions that combine those two
different ways of solving problems.

And that's it. If you want to learn more, follow me on YouTube, follow me on LinkedIn. I try to
regularly post about those things. It really kind of keeps me awake at night. And once again,
come and join the OpenAPI track tomorrow, it's going on all day in this room. Thank you.


Q&A

Q: I have known you for years on LinkedIn, very happy to see you and hear you in person. I
think the second-last slide said something like "the GenAI divide is a new driver of an old
architectural problem". Could you explain that last line? What do you mean by that?

A: Oh, you're actually reading my slides. Very good. I think the old architectural problem is
basically composability: how do we build components in a way that solves a specific domain of
the problems we want to build, and how do we make those consumable in a way so that at least
potentially others can consume them as well. And I think this separation into deterministic and
probabilistic is a new separation that we didn't have to make that much before, and that gives
us one more aspect of how we might want to identify and wrap components so that they become
reusable by others.

Q: You post pictures from Switzerland on your LinkedIn. How do you find the view out of your
room in Bangalore?

A: Different. Interesting.

Q: Can each API be explored or be taken as MCP? Is that something that's coming, or are we
looking into that pattern?

A: Personally speaking, I see a little bit too much effort being put into MCP. What I would
usually suggest is to think about the capability you want to make available first, and then
expose it in the way that works best for the consumer, which can be through MCP, which can be
through an API. MCP is just one specific way of consuming a capability, that happens to be the
one that is now heavily favored by LLMs. We'll see how that goes. But by and large, MCP in my
mind is just the delivery mechanism for capabilities. So think about your capabilities and then
expose them in whatever way your consumers need.

Q: At the start you had a slide where the division is a very trivial problem to solve and not
one to use AI for. But with recent developments in mathematics, solving problems which had not
been solved before, how does that sit with your last slide when you say use as little GenAI as
possible?

A: I think there are areas where AI is great already and will become even better, like
supporting research and these kinds of things, doing a lot of really complicated things. But in
reality, and I don't want this to sound very negative, most businesses, the problems that
businesses are solving, are not the top math problems of the world. It's more like: in this
spreadsheet, do the invoice numbers match up with the invoice numbers in that spreadsheet? A
lot of business problems are super trivial compared to what we're doing with these super hard
problems. And for that it might make more sense to have an LLM generate code that does the
matching, because then pulling out those values and comparing them is trivial. You just need
somebody to identify the business logic, which in most cases, if you're selling tires or
something, is not really PhD-level math. It's pretty simple. So throwing an expensive model at
this every single time is just a waste of money. We'll see where this is going, but I think
there is a good chance that token prices will go up a lot. And then you will ask yourself: do I
really need to match those two numbers at whatever it costs to do that per call, or do I just
generate code once and then run it a million times at basically zero cost?
