Thanks for the friendly introduction. And yeah, so let's get started. I want to talk about
not just about individual APIs, but actually, mostly my interest is not so much in just
individual things, but also in very large landscapes, as you will see. So not so much just
how do I get to build a AI app, but more how do I actually get to a place where I can do this
at scale. Okay, very briefly about myself. So my name is Erik Wilde. I work at Jentic, which is a
startup and we are building the bridge between API land and AI land. That's what we're saying.
What I will present today is not a product presentation, but it's definitely something
that has been inspired by what I spend my time with these days, which is to think about how can
organizations in a scalable way get to the place where they can start building AI things at scale.
So that's how I spend most of my time. My title is Head of Enterprise Strategy, which I think is a
very nice title, but we get to make up our own titles because we're a startup, so we can do that.
And I also spend some time with the OpenAPI initiative. So I've been working with standards
my whole life. And the OpenAPI initiative is unsurprisingly the place that created the OpenAPI
specification. We also have some other specifications right now. And because using standards is probably
a useful thing and for good standards to be there, somebody needs to take care of them.
I think it's a good thing to try to help with the success of standards. And I do that with the OpenAPI
initiative as something that they call an ambassador, which basically means I travel a lot to
conferences. I organize tracks and conferences where people just talk about how they use standards,
how standards help them to do things in a better way, and we talk about how we can improve the
standards. If you want to find a little bit more information about myself, you can find me mostly
on LinkedIn and YouTube these days. Okay, let's get started with the topic of the talk.
One of the things that I'm guessing a lot of you have seen, because that happens every couple
weeks now is that there are some studies coming out that talk about the fact that a lot of
investments in AI are not super successful. Typically, the failure rates reported in these
reports are pretty bad. The last ones that I spent a little bit more time with was this one report
coming out of MIT that was published in July. And then that last one, the McKinsey one that was
I think last week or two weeks ago, I'm not quite sure.
But it's always interesting in my mind
to read through these things a little bit
and try to figure out what is it
that seems to cause these failure rates, right?
Because everybody is super excited about AI
and all the organizations people say,
we should do something with AI.
And even there is so much excitement
and so much willingness that something should happen,
a lot of stuff doesn't seem to go great.
And you can ask yourself why that is.
I have my own theories.
Sometimes it's not so easy to really get to the data
that underlies these studies,
that you could study that a little bit more yourself.
But one theory that I have,
and that informs what I'm presenting today,
and that also is part of the origin story of Jentic,
is that it's not so much that the things
that people try to do with AI are bad ideas.
I mean, maybe some are, but others are not, probably, hopefully.
But oftentimes they are kind of built in a bubble, right?
They're built in a place where there is some kind of team that is the AI team.
Like you people do something with AI, right?
You show us the way.
And that often doesn't work so well because then it's hard for them to get access to the right data.
It's hard for them to tap into the right business processes.
So it really becomes kind of this isolation thing where it's really hard to build something that has business impact when you're building that kind of a little bit shielded from the business.
And that's the main motivation really behind today's talk is to think a little bit further.
what does it take to get to a place
where you can build AI products, AI applications at scale
and in a successful way?
And my claim would be that it's more than MCP, right?
Everybody is very excited about MCP.
So I'm sure you've noticed, or some of you have noticed,
how old is MCP now?
One year and one day.
It was released yesterday, a year ago.
And so it's really, really, really new, right?
But people are super excited about it, understandably,
because it's the first time that we can access things
from within our AI models.
So we can just talk to external data and capabilities
from within LLMs, which is great,
but it's probably not everything that we need.
It's something that we need, but not everything.
And the question then is, well,
probably then APIs somehow play into this picture.
And I did this, this is, you can actually look it up.
It's on my YouTube channel.
That was from May or June, earlier this year
at API Days New York.
And I interviewed a whole bunch of people there
and just asked them, does AI change
how we have to think about APIs,
which to me is an interesting question.
It's like, do we, I have spent a lot of time
in the API space, so it's important to think about
does that mean I have to do things differently
or can I just move on?
And the range of responses was interesting, right?
So on one extreme set, no, no, we don't even have to care
about AI, APIs are for machine consumption,
AI is just machines, so we're all good.
And then the other side of the spectrum was to say, well, APIs are so yesterday, we don't
even need APIs anymore.
MCP will do everything.
Personally, I think the truth is somewhere in between, but I think it's an interesting
exercise to go through and think about what would it take to roll out AI at the scale
that basically we have rolled out APIs today, right?
Our entire business landscape is based on APIs, hopefully.
I guess many are.
And it's really without them, nothing would work.
And I think a similar process will take care, will happen.
And just for me, because I'm interested in where people are,
I just want to do a little bit, little show of hands,
even though it's hard for me to see any hands with all the lights going on.
But just to know a little bit where people are.
So who here in this room has all or let's say most of their APIs in their organizations described in an open standard?
Probably an open API.
Most of you.
Thank you very much.
That makes me very happy.
Leave your hands up, please.
Okay, we'll go on.
Of those, who has a central API catalog?
So who pulls all of these descriptions together in some place so that they're easier to discover?
Okay, not as many.
Not as many.
Okay.
Who can track every API call with full observability?
Okay.
Still a few.
That's good.
Who has sandbox environments so that if they build new applications, they can play around with APIs without actually having to test their applications against production data?
Still some. Very good.
And then who here is brave enough that they have used these things with AI applications so they basically used AI to run against their production APIs?
Okay, not that many.
Okay, good.
So hopefully I can show you the path a little bit.
That would be my goal for today.
So I think, and the idea of this presentation
is really to give you a little bit of a step-by-step process
so that I don't have to tell you,
you have to do all of this.
And then if you don't do all of this, nothing works.
And the idea is to tell you this process a little bit
in a way that the steps get progressively harder.
But I do think that in some shape or form,
at least these things are important.
These things are things you have to think about.
They will present them,
these things will show up in your journey
in some shape or form.
And to think about a little bit earlier may be useful,
not just when you hit them and then you say,
oh yeah, no, I remember hearing about this a year ago,
but we never did anything, right?
So maybe just keep that in mind.
And then also when you run into any of these problems
that you think about, oh, maybe this is a problem
I will run into over and over again.
So maybe I should actually solve it in a way
that I solve it once and not in a different way
and every time over and over again.
Okay, let's go through these steps.
And again, the goal of this is to bridge the gap
between API land and AI land,
Because in my understanding,
when I see how people are using APIs and AI today,
there is a big disconnect, right?
MCP is something that people use a lot,
are very excited about,
but it's kind of just mostly for experimentation, I would say.
I know some people would disagree.
But I think there is kind of an inherent,
not a scaling problem,
but MCP doesn't really address scaling,
the scaling of your AI landscape, so to speak.
And that's fine.
never said they would do that. But it's important to keep in mind that this is not on MCP's to-do
list, so to speak. And just hoping that having many AI applications will somehow work out is
something you can do. But I think it's probably a better idea to think about what are the recurring
patterns that I will probably see that I should design for and plan for so that over time,
then you can actually use AI in a better way.
And one of the things that I liked most before I joined my current company
was that the underlying story to some extent is really to say,
you should only use AI when you have to, right?
Use AI as little as possible.
Personally, I like that story a lot because I think that there are still many,
many, many problems that we can use in traditional ways. We don't need to throw AI at everything,
but there are some problems where AI is really useful. So I like having this idea of saying,
when I have to use AI, because I have complex planning, and I have these kind of really AI
friendly scenarios, then I can use it. But for using things that I can also just use through
automation and traditional programming, I should probably do that because it's
cheaper, faster, more reliable. I can actually make sure it happens the same
way every time and so forth. Okay, now let me walk you through those steps that I
think are necessary in some shape or form. And again, we are building things
that help with that, but this is not really about us building these things,
You can do these things in any way you like, but I think everybody will have to do these in some shape or form.
So the first one is really we want to see AI having more tools at its disposal.
Having more tools, and as you may see that I'm a cyclist, I like having bikes.
And if you work with bikes, then as in many other places, having more tools is better because you can do more things.
That helps with solving problems.
And the same is true in AI land.
If you are building AI applications, when they have more tools at their disposal, they can do more things because they have access to more data.
They have access to more capability.
They can kick off more processes in your organization.
And what we're currently doing, to some extent, is building up this inventory.
So in some shape or form, we have these AI consumers.
And then we have a very abstract layer of digital capabilities, stuff that is just there somehow in a digital form, data operations, things you can do and so forth.
Some of them, most of them, hopefully, do have APIs.
And then the question is, okay, APIs are good, but how do I actually access those from AI applications?
And this is where MCP stepped in very successfully, right? Because MCP gave us this ability to do that.
You can fully automatically expose APIs through MCP. You can just take an open API description,
for example, and generate an MCP server from it, right? It's like you don't have to do anything.
It will just happen, right?
So that's a very, very cheap way, let's say, to scale your tool landscape in the beginning.
Because if you have many APIs, and let's say at least some of these are described in OpenAPI,
you can just press a button, basically, and you have a whole bunch of MCP servers available to you.
And that's fine.
But it's very interesting to me, again, MCP just is one year old, right?
that over the last couple, I would almost say weeks, not even months, right?
You start seeing these stories where people say, hey, wait a minute, MCP is great,
but if I have too many tools, it actually doesn't work so great anymore
because now my LLM gets very confused when it has access to 100 tools, right?
The context window gets almost exhausted or overflows,
and also it's really hard to make sense out of a really large set of tools.
And once again, as I said before, this is not a fault of MCP.
It's just that MCP wasn't built to address that problem.
Right? MCP was built.
Maybe that sounds a little bit too minimal.
But in the end, you can think of MCP being invented to give you something as simple as,
I want my LLM to have access to my file system.
Right? Which it doesn't have normally.
And I can do that if I just have a little MCP server that reads files and hands it to the LLM, right?
I can solve that problem.
Now it does quite a bit more, but that's kind of the origin story, right?
How do I even make something available to an LLM that is outside of the LLM itself?
And that's an easy way how you can go about, right?
You can generate MCP servers from all your APIs.
Again, fully automatic, very cheap.
In my mind, that's a good way to start experimenting, to start seeing what is possible, to maybe
have a little proof of concept.
But you will hit limits pretty quickly.
Because if you do that more and more, and if you want your MCP applications to become
more powerful and you want to give them more tools, then you run into this problem of your
context being too big.
So, the advantage of this approach is that it's very easy to do.
All of the machinery there is fully automated.
Emmanuel Paraskakis has really nice workshops where he does, I think it takes half an hour
for people to just sit there and start from their own APIs and get to a point where they
can work with their own APIs in an LLM.
Because you can, there are tools, online tools for all of this.
It's very, most of the time, I guess you actually spend out figuring authentication.
It's the hardest bit.
All the rest is kind of almost fully automated these days.
You just have to string together a couple of tools and then it's kind of amazing, right,
how quickly you can start just typing human language to work with your own APIs.
So, that's great.
But it does have these disadvantages of not scaling very well once you want to do that
in a little bit larger context.
So in my mind, keep experimenting with MCP.
That's good.
But don't see that as the end game of that's all we need.
Right?
Like once we have MCP under control, everything is great.
Right?
So MCP in my mind doesn't really solve everything.
It means that even if you have single APIs, I have one, I'll show you that one a little
bit later, right?
I have one API, the GitHub API.
Anybody here has worked with a GitHub API?
How many operations does it have?
Do you remember?
Many.
It's huge, right?
It has, I think, 1100.
I have the exact number up.
It has 1100 operations, like 700 endpoints, 1100 operations.
Because GitHub is complex, right?
GitHub is a big thing.
And if you have an API that allows you to do things on GitHub,
that necessarily is a big API.
But that already means that, well,
if you would now just take this GitHub API
and map it into MCP, you would end up with 1,100 tools.
And that's way too much for an LLM to make sense of.
So even individual APIs can already be too big.
For sure, if you get into the API landscape
of larger organizations where the organization has hundreds
or thousands of APIs, and some of these are potentially
also large, right?
You end up with thousands or tens of thousands of operations,
and you clearly cannot just take all of these
and stuff them into an MCP server
and assume anything is gonna happen.
That's one problem that existing APIs
will overwhelm your MCP server.
The other one is that oftentimes MCP is also not really
at the right level or your APIs are not
at the right level for MCP
because there are these underlying simple operations.
And oftentimes that means things are way too fine-grained
for LLMs to really use these things in a good way.
We'll get to that a little bit later.
And the last thing is that some of the APIs you have
oftentimes also aren't really described
great way. So even though maybe it was good enough for your developers to make
sense of these things, but if you now have to give these things to agents, we
actually get to a little different situation and we'll get to that in a
minute. So summing it up, the first step, we could say that having more
tools is not necessarily the same thing as having a better tool landscape. It can
be, it can be a part of it, but it also creates some problems with managing this multitude
of new tools.
So now we have to think about, we also have to think of other things, but the first thing
we want to think about is how do we better describe tools?
So now that we have more tools available, we have to think about how do we make them usable
so that we can actually use them
without running into this problem of having way too many
that we cannot easily use.
Some of you may have heard this term DX
for developer experience,
something that has been thrown around
in the API community for a long time,
where the idea is how easy is it for a developer
to consume an API, right?
How hard is it to understand what the API does
to onboard to actually use it in a running application.
And the big point here is that developers are smart, right?
They have a lot of context, they have a lot of experience.
So even if you document your API not in the greatest way,
they will fight their way through, right?
Because they have done that many times,
they understand probably a little bit
what your API probably should do.
So they make some assumptions, they play around with it,
and at some point they figured it out, hopefully.
So that's something that you can make easier
with better developer experience.
But the interesting point is we now have a new term
that has been used for probably just a couple of months now,
which is AX for agent experience, right?
So if agents wanna use my API, how does that work for them?
And the interesting bit here really is agents are
extent much more stupid than developers. They don't have that experience of working, having
worked with APIs for a long time, like all that long history of struggling through bad documentation,
making assumptions, asking my colleague where I can hope that they know how to use the API.
All these things that developers will just naturally do, agents just won't. They either
they don't understand what your API does or they will just misunderstand it and misuse it.
So agents are a little bit more finicky in how well you have to describe your API
so that it makes sense to them because they are more limited in their experience that they have.
Maybe that will change that we also focus more on agents.
And one of the things that we are working on a little bit,
and that's just my one of two ad breaks
for the OpenAPI initiative.
So we just released the OpenAPI 3.2
just a couple of weeks ago,
which had a couple of themes, right?
And for the upcoming new version 3.3,
which doesn't have a release date yet,
But one of the specific goals that we have is to actually think hard about how can we make OpenAPI more useful for AI consumers?
So that's something that will go into the new version, upcoming version, but we don't have anything there yet.
So for now, it's more the question of you having to think through how can I do that?
And there have been a number of suggestions how to do that.
Focus on better descriptions, put in a lot of examples, have variations of the things that you do.
Make sure you have meaningful error messages so that errors actually inform consumers about what went wrong in a way that works for the consumers.
So there's a whole bunch of guidance out there
that will tell you a little bit how to better describe
your API for machine consumption.
It's also something that we work on.
So that's by one product pitch, so to speak, not really.
But so we also have a framework that allows you
to score APIs.
We have, I think it's gonna be public next week.
It'll be open source in a few weeks.
And we have just a multi-step rating where we look at,
is the API even correctly described?
Is it well described for humans?
Is it well described for machines?
Is it described in an actionable way for machines?
Does it have the right security policies
so that machines can safely consume it?
And also, is it easy to discover
when I have thousands or tens of thousands or APIs.
Again, you don't have to use that,
but just thinking through these different dimensions
that probably will matter to use APIs at scale
is a useful exercise to do.
I'm sure there will be other frameworks
that do the same thing,
but having some measure of,
are my APIs AI friendly?
I think that will be important in the future.
But even if that is the case,
even if let's assume you work hard,
you describe all your APIs and open API,
you use a rating tool,
and then you also get to a high score
and all of your APIs are now described in a great way,
that's great.
So your APIs are now AI friendly,
but you still have way too many.
That means how do I now scale to a point where,
when my agent wants to do a thing,
it can find out what it can use to accomplish that task?
And that's the next step in my story here,
which is dynamic tool discovery.
So again, very much a scalability topic, right?
So the idea then is to say, well,
We just do whatever we do when we have large amounts
of data to deal with, right?
We built in some kind of search and ranking mechanism
that allows us to discover things and that will help.
And one data point that I had mixed feelings about
because it was one of the ideas that we had and we have,
but just on Monday, right,
Anthropic kind of, I don't wanna say copied
because I'm sure they didn't copy it,
but they basically now do what we said we are doing, right?
Which I think is totally fine
because it's a very natural thing to discover
because they discovered, oh, people are using more
and more tools with MCP, that doesn't seem to work very great.
So now they have built the same thing that we've built
which I jokingly called in the beginning a tool tool.
So our MCP server actually only has two tools.
It has one tool to search tools,
and it has a second tool to use tools.
And that means that an agent with a task that it has to do
can now ask, I have a task that I have to do,
which tools do you recommend to me?
And then it gets a list, a short list of recommended tools,
And compiling that shortlist is much easier
when you have good descriptions, right?
Which is why you should have good descriptions.
But then you can give a short list of tools to your agent
and it can then pick the one that it wants to use.
So that's kind of the story
and that's exactly what Anthropic is now doing.
They have what they, how do they call it?
The advanced tool use, right?
And it's the exact same pattern.
So instead of exposing all of the tools directly,
there is a search function in there
that hopefully finds the best tool for the job.
And the interesting thing,
I just wanna mention that briefly,
but it's something that, I don't know,
in the beginning I didn't really think about that,
but I think it's a really interesting distinction.
When you think of the regular use of APIs,
it's developers discovering the APIs
and then using them to write an application, right?
So this is a design time exercise.
I plan to have an application.
I need to have access to certain capabilities.
So I find the APIs and then I implement the application
and then people can use it and it hopefully works, right?
That's a design time exercise.
So the thing that I need to do is find the right APIs
that I need to implement by application.
Agents work very differently, right?
They are not, there's no design time thing.
They do everything at runtime, right?
So you give them a task and then they make a plan
how to accomplish that task.
And as part of that plan, they figure out,
oh, I probably need some information.
I probably need to kick off some processes.
So how can I do that?
Right, and they do that over and over again.
So that's always at runtime, right?
Every time you give them a new problem or a new task,
they will do that again.
So it's a very different pattern of API consumption.
It's not as much design time, it's much more runtime.
And that also means that the search pattern becomes much more useful because that kind of automatically means that if you have better tools available, they will just pop up.
You don't even need to kind of redeploy or redesign the application because the agent will just get better tools at its disposal and will just use those.
So that's kind of convenient, like a convenient side effect there, I would say.
I happen to live in Switzerland, so I'm required by law to use some example like this.
This thing actually exists, okay?
It's not chat GPT.
I have to prove that to you.
So you can go there.
And, oh, it's not cheap.
But you can actually buy that.
And what I mean by this picture is that oftentimes, even if we have a scalable way to solve problems, maybe the tools that I have at my disposal are not the best tools.
Maybe I have just too many tools.
That can happen if my tools are too low level.
I just mentioned this example of GitHub, right?
GitHub has 1100 operations or something.
I have some slide with GitHub on it.
Oh, yeah, it's here.
Right. So, I have the numbers here. So, the GitHub API in its current form is 11 megabytes of JSON
with 320,000 lines, has 738 URI paths with 1100 operations and 260 webhooks. So, it's a big API.
What's interesting to me is GitHub just, I think last week or two weeks ago,
pretty recently released its MCP server. So GitHub now has an official MCP server.
And it has way fewer tools, right? Because the tools are not at the same abstraction level
than you would typically have an API, right? So for your typical GitOps flows,
if you would say, okay, this is how I deal with PRs, you would actually have to combine a whole
bunch of endpoints, right, and go through all the different steps. You can turn all of that into
workflow and say, well, this is how we do it, right, and expose that as a tool. So that's actually
something that also for an agent becomes much more useful because it kind of gets away a little bit
from this confusing situation of, okay, I have a lot of tools, but actually I would rather have
fewer and have one that is exactly purpose-made for the problem that I have in front of me.
And the very, very, very bad name that I came up with for this, I hope this will not be something
that people start using, but I like the idea. We don't call it that way. I just like the name.
is API macro products by saying, in the end, the fact that the GitHub API has 1,100 operations
is actually not all that important. You could also say these are 1,100 different APIs, right?
These are 1,100 things you can do. The fact that somebody packaged that in one API and not in 20
APIs is kind of random. That's how they did it. That's fine, right? But the important thing is
really you can do 1100 different things. And that's how I think in the end, these things then look like for consumers.
Because if you tell somebody solve a problem with a GitHub API, they won't say, oh, great, it's just one API to work with.
They will say, oh, my God, 1100 operations, how do I find the ones that I need?
So you have to think through that as well.
It's not that just having one API is great
and everything will work.
It can still be at a level that is way too granular.
So the way we do search is that we kind of look
at these micro products.
So we will take each operation and hand these to LLMs,
but they might still get overwhelmed
because there are just too many of them.
And it's hard to string all of these together.
The way it's implemented, it's using a semantic search
with a retrieval augmented generation below,
under the hoods, that doesn't really matter so much,
but it's something where in the end,
we just wanna make sure that we surface
the most useful tools.
But again, just having that search capability
doesn't mean that you really have useful tools.
You may still have tools that are way too fine-grained.
And that's the last thing that I wanna talk about
little bit more detail is, which I think is something where we will head to, is that we
probably will head towards more purpose-oriented APIs, like specific tasks where you have a workflow
that does that thing. And that could be, for example, in the example of GitHub, that could be
a workflow that uses 20, 30 different endpoints and gets something done that you want to get done.
And what you have to do is just use that one workflow and you don't have to understand or
have a detailed knowledge of how it strings together those 20, 30 things under the hood.
So the way that then works is that we have these workflows that pull together APIs
and we can get to a better understanding of which workflows actually make sense and which ones we
we might wanna have because we can observe agents, right?
We can see what they do.
And if they do the same thing over and over again,
well, then we at some point can conclude
this seems to be something they do a whole lot.
And then we can turn that into workflow
and that is better for the agents.
It also becomes much better because now we have a guarantee
that it gets executed in the same way every single time
because it's not the LLM figuring out.
And then once the next model comes out,
suddenly it does something different, right?
If we put it into a workflow,
then it gets executed in the same way
because it's deterministic execution, right?
And that's the part that I said in the beginning
that I think it's not interesting for LLMs
to figure out how certain GitOps workflows work.
They should just do that, right?
And I should be able to tell them how that works.
What they should work out is how they solve problem
on top of that, right?
So having those workflows actually make a lot of sense
because they are the things that are representing
certain business logic that I want to have executed
in a repeatable way.
And it doesn't make sense to have these things
being rediscovered all the time.
And the advantages we get out of that is
things become much more predictable.
It's much easier for us to follow these traces
because it's not LLMs doing it,
it's deterministic code doing it.
It's much easier for us to guarantee compliance
because we can say this has to happen that way
and it will happen that way.
We also have more business alignment
because these workflows will represent things
that we want to happen in a certain way.
We don't have to use AI for that, right?
AI, it doesn't make any sense to use LLMs
and who knows how much energy to solve the same problem
single time we have it in front of us if parts of that problem really could be solved in deterministic
code. So that I think is also something that's really, really nice there. And the way how you do it,
there are many different ways. Our approach is to observe agents, to see what they're doing,
to surface patterns that we see occurring over and over again, and then to have an assistive
process that will take these patterns and turn them into workflows. And then they become new APIs
that are at a higher level, that are more business aligned, that are useful for agents,
and we can kind of take all the lower level APIs out of the visibility of agents and just say,
"Hey, all you want to know is how GitOps works. You don't want to know how GitHub works." Right?
That's just an implementation detail of that. And here's my second ad break of the day. The way we
do it is another open API initiative specification. It's called ORAZO. It's a
workflow specification. It's basically a specification that allows you to
represent workflows in a deterministic way. So you can describe a process that
combines a whole bunch of APIs and you can describe that in a way that it can be
just executed. And the last thing that I wanted to talk about, but I won't because
I'm a little out of time now, was one more thing that I think is also important would be to say,
hey, we also actually want to play around with things in a safe way so that there is a sandbox
where I can test these things. I have environments where I can let my agents roam free without
causing any harm. And I'm a little sad that I don't have time to talk about it,
But I want to show you my picture that I generated that I'm really proud of.
So this is our agent sandbox.
This is the place where you can have APIs being mocked.
And then you can have agents who just work against those mocked APIs.
You can observe what they're doing.
You can also maybe see that they're surfacing new workflows.
And that will be something that also helps you to be able to roll out AI things faster
because nothing bad can happen.
So it's a safe area.
Okay, and that's it.
That's all that I wanted to talk about today.
And my main goal really was to kind of look at these reports that we see more and more that talk about the fact that a lot of AI initiatives seem to have mixed results, to put it mildly.
And that there may be some things we have to keep in mind that are important to roll out AI enablement in a scalable way.
The steps that I presented to you were we want to surface more tools.
We want to better describe those tools.
We want to be able to easily find those tools and give them to agents that need them.
We also maybe want to improve those tools to a higher level, to workflows.
And we also may want to provide an environment where these tools then can be safely used for experimentation.
That's it. Thank you very much.
Once again, you can find me on YouTube and LinkedIn.
We have a little bit of time for questions and to encourage you to ask questions.
We have my publisher, O'Reilly, was friendly enough to send a couple of books.
So a little while ago, we wrote a book.
It's called Continuous API Management.
So for anybody asking questions, if it's an actual question, you get a book if you just ask it.
So please raise your voice at the end a little bit so that it sounds like a question and we can go forward with it.
I will come around.
Yeah, Lars, I think you can manage that.
Thank you.
It would be great if the question is API or AI related.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. That's a bonus.
You get two books if it is.
Hi. Thank you for the presentation.
I will ask you if you have already published examples of all these guidelines
that are being presented in this talk.
Do you mean the description guidelines?
A concrete example exactly of APIs that are following these guidelines, actually.
We have a collection of public APIs that we use for our own testing.
I think right now we have around 1,500 public APIs in there.
This is one that we just rated for testing.
This is one of the Twilio APIs.
This came out not great, but also not terrible.
We are in the process of rating all of them and then publishing the ratings for all of them.
But to be honest, we also want to make sure that our rating really works well, because it would be bad if we publish bad ratings.
And then later we have to say, oh, actually, your API is pretty good.
So, yeah, please check back with us, with me in a couple of weeks.
Then we have more stuff available.
OK, thank you very much.
Thanks.
We have one up front here.
Thank you for the good talk.
My question is about the workflows, because workflows are mainly user specific.
we currently have the problem that we do APIs and then do engineering customer specific so we don't
have a normal workflow for every customer. No, not for every customer, but you will probably have
workflows for certain business functions that you have. So for example, one area that we currently
work with a little bit where there are a lot of established workflows is just customer, basically
customer relationship management, right? Where you have certain workflows where it's clear that if you
engage with somebody, this is what has to happen. You have to check this, you have to check this,
you have to check this, and you can do this and you can do that, right? That's kind of a workflow
that you would otherwise probably document somewhere in just this standard operating procedure, right?
And that probably should exist as something that an agent can do as well. Because if you just give
them the word document with a standard operating procedure, they tend not to understand that as
well. So I'm sure there are some workflows that would be very individual, but I think
there are also a lot of areas where there are highly standardized workflows that you
can probably discover and put into executable code.
Thank you. We have one more here. We have five books just to let you know.
Okay, thank you. So I'm in.
Okay, so my question is more about security.
So I wondered whether there are some recommendations, how to define good APIs for AI consumers,
because I can imagine that we need to have additional functionality for security.
Yeah, so I mean, for now, our security, so we have a security rating in here.
But it's actually more good practices around API security in general, right?
Like have a security policy, don't violate the OWASP policies, these kind of things.
In the consumption, then, I would definitely, what I would recommend right now is to follow all these discussions of security in the MCP space, right?
Because they have all these really interesting discussions
on how to use delegation and downscoping
and all these things that you can do
and that you definitely should do, right?
Like what you should not do is for example,
let an agent impersonate a user
and then assume that this is going to go well.
This is probably not a great idea.
So at that point, I would say
it's less the API security aspect.
It's more the question,
which is why we have this picture
of having this security thing in here.
And again, MCP does the same thing in some shape or form,
but you should have some way of how you handle security
specifically for AI consumers, right?
Because they are actors and you should treat them as actors
and not just as a kind of transparent piece of software.
- So you say it's more matter of the security box up there
and not the API itself.
- Yes, yes.
So, which was actually our original motivation
for the sandbox to say the sandbox also always
has a security layer in there
so that any agent interacting with APIs
has to go through that layer.
And then we see what they do.
We downscope things, we delegate things properly.
And then we can be sure that we handle that
in a responsible way in one place
and don't have the situation where we tell all of our developers,
please don't do this, right?
Because that will be terrible.
- And there are great guidelines for security
in agentic AI environments from the OWSAAP, yes.
- OWASP, yeah, just say OWASP, it's easier.
- So thanks.
- Yeah, yeah, that's true.
They just added some.
So basically they used to have guidelines.
I mean, those ones down here,
the API security guidelines they have,
those ones have been around for ages,
I think 2018 was the first one.
And now they have started working on kind of the agentic guidelines as well.
Thanks.
