Okay, thank you. Can I get this one? Yeah, thanks Mehdi. Thanks everybody for being here. So what I want to talk about is, well, what you can read there, the hidden common ground in business agents and agentic coding. So one of the things that we noticed, so I work for Jentic, so we work on agentic technology, so to speak. And what we noticed is that in organizations, oftentimes you speak to two very different groups. There's one group of people who are more from the IT platform engineering side, and they're interested a lot in coding agents and using agents more for development purposes and then there are the other people who are more a little bit in this camp of we are the AI innovation team. Somebody told us to do cool stuff with AI and they are much more interested in business agents, right? They come from the side where people say, hey, AI is a thing. Maybe we should use that for business stuff. And sometimes it's interesting to just think about what are actually the differences between those two worlds? What are the commonalities and how should we approach that? Just a little bit about myself. So my name is Erik Wilde. I'm the head of enterprise strategy at agentic. So we are a startup working in the space of agentic technology. So our goal is to build a platform that agents can consume, which in itself then is based on APIs. So that's where we work. And like I said, we do encounter these two different groups of people. And we start realizing that when you talk to different people from these groups, you actually see very different patterns emerging. And that was one of the reasons that we wanted to better understand what causes these patterns. And we are in the process of publishing a report on that. So I have brought little sheets of paper. I put some on the chair there if you want to take it with you. I also will show you the QR code later. And what I will share today is basically a few of the findings from that report. But before I dive a little bit into these findings, I just want to get you started a little bit with terminology, just very briefly, because I think it is important sometimes to have a different or more specific way of how you talk about agents. Sometimes when you listen to people talk about agents, it feels like everything is an agent these days. Instead of saying application, people just say agent, and then everything sounds kind of cooler and more modern. But there are, I think, and it's not a super scientific distinction, but I think it makes sense to differentiate between coding agents and business agents for the purpose of the observations that we were interested in. And I'll get into that in a minute, of course. And one of the reasons why I think it's interesting is that coding agents are super duper popular, right? Everybody uses them pretty much. Not really everybody, but pretty much everybody. So it's clear that in every organization, you probably want to start looking into how do I use coding agents as effectively as possible? Because everybody's using them. If you just ignore that or you don't help people, they will still use them, just not as effectively. So probably not a good idea. But coding agents, to some extent, they're not as sexy as business agents because they just help you to write code. In the end, you still write code, and depending on how much you're Vibe coding or doing reviews, but it's kind of still this old model of I develop applications, which I then roll out and which do things. So at that level, coding agents sometimes I think are a little bit not quite as exciting for people because they are not really taking business actions. They're just developer tooling, really great developer tooling, but they're just developer tooling. Business agents on the other side are these agents that actually take business actions, right? They're not tooling for developers. They're basically little business agents doing stuff, right? So at the extreme point, you might say they are actually managing your business to a fair extent, right? They might decide when to reorder things, how to change your market approach, and whatever it is. They might do a whole lot of really interesting things. And it's a different class of things you're approaching with those because the business agents actually change how your business operates. It's really these business agents taking actions instead of humans making those decisions. And those ones are a little bit more interesting sometimes for people because they have this promise of your organization maybe can change faster, can adopt to things faster, can maybe even adopt this business model to changing environments. right so it might actually change your organization a fair bit. So when you look at these two different models of agents right so you have these business agents and the coding agents and they are of course different things right so the coding agents are basically developer tooling and the business agents are like free-floating things in your business that accomplish business goals hopefully. But they also have quite a bit of overlap, right? So you have a lot of these coding agents around. And the coding agents need access to your organization's IT infrastructure, right? So if you start developing code, they probably should know what they can get access to, right? So a coding agent, ideally, and that was part of how we started this journey. And coding agent ideally is not something where you say, hey, I want to write code with these three APIs. Instead, what actually you should be doing is say, hey, I want to write code that accomplishes a certain business goal. And then the coding agent actually figures out which APIs are available for me to accomplish that business goal. That would be a really effective use of using coding agents. So at that level, you can see that these two things already have a little bit of overlap where your coding agents actually need the same information that the business agent needs, but for this different task. They generate code, the business agents also need to discover APIs, but to take business action. But they both need those access. And we do see that business agents are arriving more and more. Sometimes not quite at the pace maybe that people are predicting it, but they are. And the question then is, would it make sense to have a more unified view of those two things? Because in a lot of organizations, you see that there is on the one hand a bonus point when you recognize anybody recognizing that album cover? Sorry? Very close. Gary Neumann. So actually the album is called The Pleasure Principle, but I hacked it. So the idea behind platform engineering, right, it has been around for quite a while and the The idea has always been to make developers more effective. You look at what your developers are doing, you look at how they spend time, and you try to make them spend less time with repetitive stuff and allow them to spend more time with actually doing business relevant things. And you can easily extend that idea of the general platform engineering movement that we now have had for longer than we have had the AI movement, so to speak, to also include and say, hey, since 97% of developers are using coding agents, maybe we should also look at that as part of our platform engineering ideas. And that's really where things, I think, should be going. And then there's another perspective of the same kind of thing, the platform thing. Here's an excellent book. I would recommend everybody to read that. It's by Stephen Fishman and Matt McLarty. In full disclosure, I worked for Matt for a little while, so I'm definitely biased, but I still love this book. So this book also talks about platforms, but it talks about them more as a business idea, where what they argue about is to say, if you can build things more quickly, you can experiment more. You can better figure out what works, what doesn't work. You can explore the market better. And in the end, that makes your organization much fitter in a business sense, right? Because you can afford to build more things and you can afford for some of those things to fail and you can be a little bit more data driven and explorative. And both of these things, right, the platform engineering from the technical side and the platform engineering, so to speak, from the business side, I think tell these stories that in the end it would be nice if somehow we would build platforms for AI that work for both scenarios, right? that both work for coding agents and for business agents. And like I said, we have done a little bit of surveying and did some interviews because we just wanted to find out what's actually going on. And I'll show you some of the findings that we had in a second. So our goal was to find out, is this divide between the coding agent world and the business agent world, is that a real thing? And if yes, what consequences does it have? And how can you maybe overcome that at least a little bit? So we ran a survey, we interviewed a couple people, and we actually found a couple of these what we call disconnects, where similar problems are being solved in two places. And you could think about, well, maybe it would make sense to look at this a little bit more holistically. And I want to talk about two of them. And I also just want to briefly say that, of course, I wouldn't suggest that you should just stop your AI things for now and think about building a platform for the next year. That's definitely not something that people like doing. But I think at least you can take a step back and wonder, do these things happen for us as well? Because we think that makes more sense to do it a little bit more incrementally, then for each of these disconnects, we have a couple of tactics basically where we tell you, "Well, If you see this happening in your organization, here are some ways how you can reduce that a little bit. Okay, let's dive right in. So the one thing that we've seen is that on both sides, both the coding agents and the business agents, sometimes there is this tendency to just run into doing these things without thinking about what foundation would be useful. And I would argue that APIs probably are a good foundation in both cases, right? Because your code in 100% of the cases, right, will have to use APIs. It's impossible to write a business application that doesn't use an API, right? That doesn't make any sense. And the same is true for business agents, right? Business agents also need to use APIs the whole time because they need to get insight into what's happening. They need to take action. So they also need to use APIs, right? So both of them definitely need somehow, in some shape or form, APIs. You might instead think about MCP. But in the end, MCP is just a different delivery vehicle into your agentic infrastructure. So it doesn't really make any difference there. And if you don't think about that foundation first, then old decisions that you made and bad foundations that you built actually might now be amplified. Because if you have bad APIs and then you build agents on top of bad APIs, well, your agents will have a hard time. That's very clear. And we found the fact-- we found that a lot of that is happening. So a lot of organizations are using, of course-- I'm wondering where these other-- where the 3% actually are, what they're doing. But we have actually found this thing that-- Organizations are, of course, using APIs for both things. And this one, I love ChatGPT. I came up with that one. So that's basically what happens with agents when you give them bad APIs. They have no clue what to do. They just try to figure out things and make things work. And if you give them very fine-grained and very badly documented APIs, they struggle. And then some people have the tendency to blame it on the agents or say, it doesn't work. It's like, no, your infrastructure is not great. So it's really hard for AI to get to work because you don't give them the right tools and the right instructions to actually work in your infrastructure. So avoiding that is really something that I think is important. And you see that there are a lot of reports out there published last year and this year from McKinsey and Deloitte. There was one from MIT, Nanda, which showed that organizations have trouble scaling AI, right? They're good at building prototypes and demos because, well, yeah, if you give those teams a lot of money, they can do that, right? But then scaling that up and say, okay, and now do that at scale and over and over again, then it actually becomes this much more challenging integration exercise that becomes more challenging for organizations, right? And that's why they sometimes skip this step of, well, yeah, we don't have really time to invest in good APIs. We have to deliver good AI. It's like, well, how do you plan on delivering good AI when you have bad APIs? Right. That's slightly mysterious. But that's what you often see is happening. And what we think would be good is to also then not just say, OK, either to the business agent people or to the coding agent people, hey, this is a problem on your side, but also point out that actually if you work on a better API foundation, it benefits everybody, right? Like it's not just for the business agents or for the coding agents. It's just for everybody, even though you might not have that shared vision somewhere, but that investment will actually give you a good result on both sides, right? So in the end, and this is what I call MCP washing, right? Sometimes you see organizations now investing a lot of effort into building MCP stuff. And in my mind, I don't think that's a great idea. I think it would be a much better investment to say, let's build good APIs and then deliver those through MCP, right? So keep the MCP layer really thin, but instead build a good MCP layer. Because, for example, if you play around with something like OpenClaw, OpenClaw doesn't really like MCP. OpenClaw likes APIs, right? So if you have a better API layer, it's more likely that a lot of consumers can benefit from it. So one of the tactics that we recommend then is to say, instead of spending a lot of effort into building MCPs, because that's kind of new and cool and what everybody's doing now, instead think about creating good capabilities, which you then deliver through MCP, right? but as a thin layer of MCP and a thicker layer of good capabilities as the foundation. And you can do that by improving your API governance in general, right? So API governance right now I think is really something that you see will be picking up. And just trying to do some quick fixes with building up layers such as MCP or who knows what comes next, it's probably not the best investment. OK, so that's one of the disconnects that we found, that there is this assumption that we want to do good things with AI, but there's not enough awareness of the fact that good APIs would actually help with that, so even across those two areas of coding agents and business agents. The second thing that we've seen is another disconnect, which is how to manage security with agents. So that's particularly important with business agents because the idea of business agents is that they can take a lot of actions, ideally. So you cannot limit them necessarily to just using one or two or three APIs because you want them to be powerful and take important decisions and do all kinds of things. But you still want to limit them probably so you don't want to allow them to do everything. So you need a good layer where you can control access of agents to individual capabilities, right? And not all of your APIs might have that fine-grained access model. So when we were playing around with APIs, right, some APIs have great security models where you have very, very fine-grained scopes and you can basically scope by operation. Other APIs have basically just, well, you can use this API or you can't, right? And if you can use it, you can do whatever that API allows you to do. So that is probably not a good foundation for agents, right? Because you may not trust the agent to always do just the three things that you think it should be doing. You want to be able to technically limit it to do that, right? So and we did see that a lot of infrastructure that is out there is not really equipped to handle that. So roughly around 50% of respondents do that kind of thing. So they try to limit access of agents, but even if they do, sometimes nobody actually watches what's happening. So in that case, it also is not all that useful because in the end, you might also want to learn what your agents actually are doing and are not doing. And the consequences of that are that if you have not so great security, then people might be much more reluctant to actually experiment with agents, right? Because they know that if their agents does bad things, it will, we all know the stories, right? It will start deleting stuff because for some reason it decided, well, if I want to get rid of this, just delete it and all good, right? So you want to be able to better control agents so that you can actually limit them to do only the things that you want them to do. And that is particularly relevant in that space of optionality that I was mentioning, right, where your AI teams should feel empowered and safe to do experimentation, right? They shouldn't fear to go into production because they are not quite sure whether their agents are actually doing what they should be doing. So you should give them the tools that they need. And in order to do that, the tactics that we recommend is to say you should probably have an additional security layer that allows you to better control agents and allows you to very specifically give access to agents in the sense that you can say this agent has only access to this set of APIs for these operations. And you also never, ever give API access information directly to agents, right? They only have to go, they always have to go through this layer. And that's really a model where you can feel as safe as possible. I mean, you still have to trust your agents, of course, to use the APIs that they can use responsibly. But at least you can control it down to the level that is technically possible. And you can also have people looking into that and figuring out whether agents are well behaving or not, whether they need some tweaking, whether maybe when a new model came out, suddenly you see new patterns emerging and you're wondering, it's like, why is this agent now doing these different things? So you should have this observability so that you can handle these things. And like I said, it's unlikely that you will now stop doing things with AI and start building the perfect platform. That's just not how the world happens. But I think it should be an ideal that you work towards and that's why this guy here, Immanuel Kant, I'm German so I have to like German philosophers. And one of the famous quotes by him is that he said, "An ideal is a regulative idea." So this ideal of having one platform for all your agentic things something that will perfectly happen but it should be something that you try to achieve right and the direction where you go and you say hey look if we build a security layer why don't we build it so that both the coding agents and the business agents use it if we improve our API's why don't we improve them and both coding agents and business agents can build on the improved API's right so so that I think is the most effective way to think about what these two worlds need and where they are today and where ideally your your investments can pay off in the best possible way. And that's why we like I said we we did this report. If you're interested in in the report you can sign up for the report here. We'll publish that in one or two weeks and we're still working on it. We didn't get quite ready but it's it's and you can also get these little flyers here. I put some on the chair there. And the idea really is to give you a little bit of an insight in the same way that I gave you now, that there are these disconnects where the worlds of coding agents and the world of business agents are a little bit apart. But I think it makes a lot of sense to think about what these commonalities are between them and how certain investments and actions that you do maybe could be better framed if you look at them in that larger context, right? For example, like I said, right, so instead of putting a lot of effort into building very sophisticated MCP infrastructure, invest into API infrastructure and then build a thinner MCP layer on top of that, like these kind of things. So these tactical recommendations really are the things that I think are the most interesting takeaways because you can just look through them and basically choose to adopt some of them and maybe others not because you're not in a position or you don't think that's happening to you. Okay and with that I am done. If you're interested in more API stuff you can find me on YouTube. I have a channel around APIs. You can find me on LinkedIn and yeah that's it from me. Thanks a lot for listening and I think we have do we have a little bit of time for Q&A maybe.